README.md, before:

# SDSC "mpi4py" roll

## Overview

This roll bundles the mpi4py Python interface to MPI.

For more information about the software, please visit
<a href="https://bitbucket.org/mpi4py/mpi4py/">the project webpage</a>.

## Requirements

To build/install this roll you must have root access to a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance).

If your Rocks development machine does *not* have Internet access you must
download the appropriate mpi4py source file(s) using a machine that does
have Internet access and copy them into the `src/<package>` directories on your
Rocks development machine.


## Dependencies

The sdsc-roll must be installed on the build machine, since the build process
depends on make include files provided by that roll.

The roll sources assume that modulefiles provided by SDSC compiler, mpi, and python
rolls are available, but it will build without them as long as the environment
variables they provide are otherwise defined.


## Building

To build the mpi4py-roll, execute this on a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance):

```shell
% make 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

A successful build will create the file `mpi4py-*.disk1.iso`.  If you built the
roll on a Rocks frontend, proceed to the installation step. If you built the
roll on a Rocks development appliance, you need to copy the roll to your Rocks
frontend before continuing with installation.

This roll source supports building with different compilers and for different
MPI flavors.  The `ROLLCOMPILER` and `ROLLMPI` make variables can be used to
specify the names of compiler and MPI modulefiles to use for building the
software, e.g.,

```shell
make ROLLCOMPILER=intel ROLLMPI=mvapich2_ib 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

The build process recognizes "gnu", "intel" or "pgi" as the value for the
`ROLLCOMPILER` variable; any MPI modulefile name may be used as the value of
the `ROLLMPI` variable.  The default values are "gnu" and "rocks-openmpi".

The roll also supports specifying building with/for python versions other than
the one included with the o/s.  To use this feature, specify a `ROLLPY` make
variable that includes a space-delimited list of python modulefiles, e.g.,

```shell
% make ROLLPY=python 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

## Installation

To install, execute these instructions on a Rocks frontend:

```shell
% rocks add roll *.iso
% rocks enable roll mpi4py
% cd /export/rocks/install
% rocks create distro
```

Subsequent installs of compute and login nodes will then include the contents
of the mpi4py-roll.  To avoid cluttering the cluster frontend with unused
software, the mpi4py-roll is configured to install only on compute and
login nodes. To force installation on your frontend, run this command after
adding the mpi4py-roll to your distro

```shell
% rocks run roll mpi4py host=NAME | bash
```

where NAME is the DNS name of a compute or login node in your cluster.

In addition to the software itself, the roll installs mpi4py environment
module files in:

```shell
/opt/modulefiles/applications/mpi4py
```


## Testing

The mpi4py-roll includes a test script which can be run to verify proper
installation of the roll documentation, binaries and module files. To
run the test scripts execute the following command(s):

```shell
% /root/rolltests/mpi4py.t 
```

Commit message:

APS-1078 mention use of python3 in roll build in README.md

README.md, after:

# SDSC "mpi4py" roll

## Overview

This roll bundles the mpi4py Python interface to MPI.

For more information about the software, please visit
<a href="https://bitbucket.org/mpi4py/mpi4py/">the project webpage</a>.

## Requirements

To build/install this roll you must have root access to a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance).

If your Rocks development machine does *not* have Internet access you must
download the appropriate mpi4py source file(s) using a machine that does
have Internet access and copy them into the `src/<package>` directories on your
Rocks development machine.


## Dependencies

The sdsc-roll must be installed on the build machine, since the build process
depends on make include files provided by that roll.

The roll sources assume that modulefiles provided by SDSC compiler, mpi, and python
rolls are available, but it will build without them as long as the environment
variables they provide are otherwise defined.

Note that as of this version and later (3.0.3), mpi4py is built with python3.


## Building

To build the mpi4py-roll, execute this on a Rocks development
machine (e.g., a frontend or development appliance):

```shell
% make 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

A successful build will create the file `mpi4py-*.disk1.iso`.  If you built the
roll on a Rocks frontend, proceed to the installation step. If you built the
roll on a Rocks development appliance, you need to copy the roll to your Rocks
frontend before continuing with installation.

This roll source supports building with different compilers and for different
MPI flavors.  The `ROLLCOMPILER` and `ROLLMPI` make variables can be used to
specify the names of compiler and MPI modulefiles to use for building the
software, e.g.,

```shell
make ROLLCOMPILER=intel ROLLMPI=mvapich2_ib 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

The build process recognizes "gnu", "intel" or "pgi" as the value for the
`ROLLCOMPILER` variable; any MPI modulefile name may be used as the value of
the `ROLLMPI` variable.  The default values are "gnu" and "rocks-openmpi".

The roll also supports specifying building with/for python versions other than
the one included with the o/s.  To use this feature, specify a `ROLLPY` make
variable that includes a space-delimited list of python modulefiles, e.g.,

```shell
% make ROLLPY=python 2>&1 | tee build.log
```

## Installation

To install, execute these instructions on a Rocks frontend:

```shell
% rocks add roll *.iso
% rocks enable roll mpi4py
% cd /export/rocks/install
% rocks create distro
```

Subsequent installs of compute and login nodes will then include the contents
of the mpi4py-roll.  To avoid cluttering the cluster frontend with unused
software, the mpi4py-roll is configured to install only on compute and
login nodes. To force installation on your frontend, run this command after
adding the mpi4py-roll to your distro

```shell
% rocks run roll mpi4py host=NAME | bash
```

where NAME is the DNS name of a compute or login node in your cluster.

In addition to the software itself, the roll installs mpi4py environment
module files in:

```shell
/opt/modulefiles/applications/mpi4py
```


## Testing

The mpi4py-roll includes a test script which can be run to verify proper
installation of the roll documentation, binaries and module files. To
run the test scripts execute the following command(s):

```shell
% /root/rolltests/mpi4py.t 
```
